[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: If you want
to build something similar,
the Socket IO documentation is
actually fairly good on this front.
If you just go to SOCKET.IO,
and click on Getting Started,
you can do a pretty much around about to
do here by going through this tutorial
in setting up a basic
basic chat application.
So what we're gonna need
to do to use socket I O.
I'll use it in a simple sort
of stand alone project first.
And then we'll pose
a challenge to the group
to integrate socket IO in our
TODO List application as well.
First thing we're gonna do,
we already have if memory serves,
we have a express module
installed in this directory.
Yep there we go.
But we don't yet have socket IO.
I'm going to install that now.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
socket.io works alongside pretty much
every node web framework.
It requires an HTTP server instance to
do things like serve up the client side
interface JavaScript to the browser and
a few other bits.
And I'll show you how to kind of set
that up on the on the server side first.
If we open this app this is the simple
express example that we looked at
yesterday that showed us
the basics of creating middleware.
And in that application, we let
express create an HTTP server for us.
But in this instance we are actually
not gonna be doing that.
So let's go ahead and
require the HTTP module from core node.
And we're also going to
require the socket IO module.
We're actually just gonna create,
I'll require that.
We'll actually require that
here in a A little bit.
Now instead of calling this
in on our express app,
after we create our express app,
we're gonna create an HTP server.
And then we're gonna have that
server listen on port 3,000 and
this time we'll pass in a little
function that's gonna say there
are servers running just so
we know that it's working fine.
All right so
we have our have our server there.
Now that we have our express application
set up, we're also going to serve
up some static assets so we can see what's
happening on the HTML side of things.
So we're going to use the built-in
express static server.
And we're gonna serve up the public
directory which has yet to be created
from within the current directory.
So if there's an HTML, CSS,
JavaScript other assets,
they'll be loaded from this public folder.
Here, let me just pull this up.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Once we
get that piece all set up,
we have our regular old Express app.
Now we need to,
let's maybe start by creating that
HTML application next that we'll be using
the socket IO stuff on the client side.
So we'll create an indexed HTML and
we'll just have some some basic.
Some basic markup here.
Maybe an owner list,
which will have our messages.
And then we'll have a form or
maybe even just an input.
Type text
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
then this is going to be the way in
which users are going to interact
with our application,
by typing in some chat messages.
And then we'll have a button,
>> Kevin Whinnery: To
actually send that message
out to some folks.
All right, so we have our basic
Express app running here.
We actually don't need
any of this anymore.
And if we've done everything correctly,
we should have an Express app running.
Yeah we already have one running
on port 3,000 over here.
We should have a server running
on port 3,000 that just has
a basic HTML U I here that eventually
will become a chat application.